Useless `echo`? Instead of `echo $(cmd)`, just use `cmd`
--------------------------------------------------------

### Problematic code:

```sh
echo "$(whoami)"
```

### Correct code:

```sh
whoami
```

### Rationale

ShellCheck found the unnecessary construct `echo "$(somecommand here)"`.

This is generally due to a misunderstanding about what `echo` does. It has no role in "showing on screen" or similar, but simply writes a string to standard output. This is also how all other programs output data.

`echo "$(somecommand)"` will capture the output `somecommand` writes to standard output and write it to standard output, where it was already going. At best this is a no-op, but it may have several other negative effects:

* It disables parallel processing in pipelines, such as `echo "$(find . -name '*.iso')" | xargs sha1sum` which does not allow iterating files and checksumming at the same time. Similarly, users don't see incremental updates as programs run.
* It introduces shell and echo related pitfalls like being unable to output the string `-n`, stripping NUL bytes and trailing linefeeds, and expanding escape sequences in some shells but not others.
* It suppresses the exit code of the command, so that `echo "$(grep '^user:' /etc/passwd)"` no longer returns with failure when the user is not found.
* It does not allow programs to tailor their output for terminals, such as `ls` vs `echo "$(ls)"` where the former outputs columns and colors according to user preferences, while the latter doesn't.
* It uses unnecessary memory to buffer up the data before writing it where it was already going.

To avoid all this, simply replace `echo "$(somecommand)"` with `somecommand` as in the example. It's shorter, faster, and more correct.

### Exceptions

If you are relying on one of the otherwise detrimental effects for correctness, you can consider one of:

```
# Suppress exit code without the other negative effects
cmd || true

# Disable tty specific output without the other negative effects
cmd | cat

# Buffer up potentially large output without using more memory or modifying the content in any way
cmd > file.tmp
cat file.tmp

# Exactly like `echo "$(cmd)"`, but allows output like `-n` and works the same across shells
printf '%s\n' "$(cmd)"
```
[Source](https://github.com/koalaman/shellcheck/wiki/SC2005)

